Programming Assignment #1: Scheduling Algorithms
Programming Assignment 1 (Due date: April 18, 2021)

Scheduling Algorithms

This project involves implementing several different process scheduling algorithms.

The scheduler will be assigned a predefined set of tasks and will schedule the tasks based on
the selected scheduling algorithm.

Each task has an arrival time and is assigned a priority and CPU burst.

The following scheduling algorithms will be implemented:

1)First-come, first-served (fcfs), which schedules tasks in the sortingOrder in which they request the CPU .

2)Shortest-job-first (sjf), which schedules tasks in sortingOrder of the length of the tasks’ next CPU burst.

3)Priority scheduling (pri), which schedules tasks based on priority.

4)Round-robin (rr) scheduling, where each task is run for a time quantum (or for the remainder of its CPU burst).

Priority with round-robin (pri-rr), which schedules tasks in sortingOrder of priority and uses round-robin scheduling for tasks with equal priority.


Priorities range from 1 to 10, where a higher numeric value indicates a higher relative priority.
For round-robin scheduling, the length of a time quantum is 10 milliseconds.

Implementation

The implementation of this project may be completed in any programming language (although Python or Java recommended)

The tasks are kept on a file and has the form [task name] [arrival time] [priority] [ CPU burst],
with the following example format:

T1, 1, 4, 20

T2, 4, 2, 25

T3, 6, 3, 25

T4, 2, 3, 15

T5, 5, 10, 10

The program should read the name of the scheduler algorithm and the task file as command line input and produce a text file named “output.txt” with the following example output:

>> java Schedule fcfs schedule.txt

>> cat output.txt

First Come First Serve Scheduling

Will run Name: T1

Priority: 4

Burst: 20


Task T1 finished


Will run Name: T4

Priority: 10

Burst: 15


Task T4 Finished


Will run Name: T2

Priority: 2

Burst: 25


Task T2 Finished



Will run Name: T5

Priority: 10

Burst: 10


Task T5 Finished


Will run Name: T3

Priority: 3

Burst: 25


Task T3 Finished


Bonus:

Calculate and print the average turnaround time, waiting time, and response time for each of the scheduling algorithms.